1. Overview
This feature enables a new user to create an account and complete a guided onboarding sequence within the PWA prototype. All data is stored locally in the browser (localStorage or IndexedDB) using hardcoded mock responses; no actual API calls are made. The flow must simulate the business logic of the full Medavize application as defined in the proposal.
2. User Stories
	•	As a new user, I want to sign up using my email or phone number so that I can access the application.
	•	As a new user, I want to see a clear onboarding sequence that explains the app's value and collects essential profile information.
	•	As a returning user, I want to log in using previously provided credentials so that I can resume my session.
3. Functional Requirements
3.1. Signup Screen
	•	Fields:
	◦	Full Name (text, required)
	◦	Email (email format, required) or Phone Number (numeric, required) – toggle selection via radio/segmented control.
	◦	Password (minimum 8 characters, at least one letter and one number, required)
	◦	Confirm Password (must match Password, required)
	◦	Checkbox: "I agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy" (required, with links to static policy pages).
	•	Action: "Create Account" button.
	•	Alternative: "Sign in with Google" and "Sign in with Apple" buttons (these will be mocked; clicking triggers a simulated OAuth flow that returns hardcoded user profile data).
3.2. Login Screen
	•	Fields: Email/Phone, Password.
	•	Action: "Log In" button.
	•	Alternative: OAuth buttons as above.
	•	Mock Behavior: Credentials are validated against a hardcoded in‑memory map of existing users (initially empty; seeded with a demo user on first launch). Successful login routes to the dashboard or resumes onboarding if incomplete.
3.3. Onboarding Sequence (Multi‑Step)
After successful signup, the user is guided through a series of screens. Progress is tracked locally.


Step
Screen Title
Description
User Action
Mock Logic
1
Welcome
Brief value proposition with illustration.
"Next"
None
2
Data Sources Overview
Explains what data can be connected (EHR, Apple/Google Health, manual entry).
"Continue"
None
3
Connect Apple Health
Prompts user to sync Apple Health data.
"Connect" (simulated) or "Skip for now"
Clicking "Connect" shows a mock permission dialog then stores a flag appleHealthConnected: true.
4
Connect Google Health
Same as above for Android users; conditionally shown based on user‑agent or a prior device selection.
"Connect" or "Skip"
Stores googleHealthConnected: true.
5
Manual Vitals Entry
Allows user to input baseline vitals: Blood Pressure (Systolic/Diastolic), Heart Rate, Weight, Height.
Input fields with validation, "Save & Continue"
Stores vitals as FHIR‑like observations in local storage.
6
Notification Permission
Asks user to allow push notifications.
"Enable Notifications" or "Not Now"
Simulates browser notification permission prompt and stores preference.
7
Subscription Trial
Displays a paywall screen offering 1‑month free trial, then $9.99/month.
"Start Free Trial" or "Restore Purchases"
Clicking "Start Free Trial" stores subscriptionStatus: 'trial' with an expiry date 30 days in future. No actual payment processing.
	•	Onboarding Completion: After the final step, the user is marked as onboardingCompleted: true and redirected to the main dashboard.
4. Data Model (Local Storage)
All data is stored under a single key medavize_mock_db with the following structure:
json
{
  "users": [
    {
      "id": "uuid-1",
      "fullName": "John Doe",
      "email": "john@example.com",
      "phone": null,
      "password": "hashed_mock_value", // In mock, store plain text but never use in production
      "createdAt": "2026-04-09T10:00:00Z"
    }
  ],
  "currentUserId": "uuid-1",
  "onboarding": {
    "completed": true,
    "stepsCompleted": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7],
    "appleHealthConnected": true,
    "googleHealthConnected": false,
    "notificationsEnabled": true
  },
  "vitals": {
    "bloodPressure": { "systolic": 120, "diastolic": 80, "unit": "mmHg" },
    "heartRate": { "value": 72, "unit": "bpm" },
    "weight": { "value": 70, "unit": "kg" },
    "height": { "value": 175, "unit": "cm" }
  },
  "subscription": {
    "status": "trial", // "trial", "active", "expired", "none"
    "trialEndDate": "2026-05-09T10:00:00Z",
    "plan": "monthly" // or "annual"
  }
}
5. Validation Rules (Client‑Side)
	•	Email: Must match standard email regex /\S+@\S+\.\S+/.
	•	Phone: Minimum 10 digits, allow formatting.
	•	Password: Minimum 8 chars, at least one letter and one number.
	•	Password confirmation: Must match password field.
	•	Vitals:
	◦	Systolic: 60–250 mmHg
	◦	Diastolic: 40–150 mmHg
	◦	Heart Rate: 30–200 bpm
	◦	Weight: 20–500 kg
	◦	Height: 50–300 cm
	•	Terms Checkbox: Must be checked.
6. UI/UX Requirements
	•	Responsive Design: Must work on mobile and tablet screen sizes (PWA).
	•	Step Indicator: Onboarding screens display a progress bar or step count (e.g., "Step 3 of 7").
	•	Skip Option: Steps 3, 4, and 6 must allow skipping without breaking the flow.
	•	Persistent State: If the user closes the browser during onboarding, they resume at the last incomplete step upon returning.
	•	Mock OAuth Simulation: Clicking "Sign in with Google" immediately populates the signup form with hardcoded demo data (e.g., "Demo User", "demo@example.com") and proceeds as if authenticated.
7. Acceptance Criteria


ID
Criteria
AC1
User can sign up with email and password; data persists locally.
AC2
User can log in with previously created credentials.
AC3
OAuth buttons simulate a successful sign‑in flow without actual redirects.
AC4
Onboarding steps are sequential; user cannot skip to later steps except where explicitly allowed.
AC5
All form fields show inline validation errors and prevent submission until valid.
AC6
Vitals entry accepts only numeric values within clinical ranges and displays friendly error messages.
AC7
Free trial button sets a 30‑day trial period and unlocks dashboard access.
AC8
Onboarding state is saved after each step; reloading the page resumes at the correct step.
AC9
The entire flow works offline and without any network requests.
AC10
Terms and Privacy Policy links open static HTML pages included in the PWA bundle.
8. Out of Scope for This Prototype
	•	Actual OAuth integration with Google/Apple.
	•	Payment processing (subscription is mocked).
	•	Real health data syncing (Apple HealthKit, Google Health Connect).
	•	Backend API calls, user session management beyond local storage.
	•	Password encryption/hashing (stored as plain text for demo purposes only; clearly marked as mock).
